# Project Timeline

## Prior to senior year
I originally proposed a thesis topic relating to object tracking inspired by my work at MIT Driverless, this proposal was rejected due to its involvement with an outside organization. Pito and I then discussed many possible alternative topics of research where I was led to the idea of a dispatching problem for autonomous vehicles. After some preliminary research into the topic I was able to specify my focus and submit a second thesis proposal (see "Thesis Proposal -- Soderberg, August). My work over the last year has refined my original proposal quite a bit but the inspiration and primary goal of dispatching cargo vehicles has remained since this proposal.

## The remainder of this timeline will be divided into four phases each spanning roughly half of a semester.

## Phase 1
This time was dedicated to reading all of the relevant research to my topic to refine both the topic itself as well as my solution approach. To aid in this goal, I consulted with Prof. Pengyu Hong at the advice of Pito to leverage his knowledge of machine learning which would be integral to my topic. For that discussion I prepared a series of slides (see "Dispatching of Autonomous Cargo Transport Rovers) which detailed my current research plans. Pengyu was able to provide much guidance for my research and I would continue meeting with him periodically for his valuable advice. "Phase 1" of my thesis culminated in a more refined project description, an review of relevant research, and a solution plan which the remainder of my research would attempt to follow. (see "Dispatching of Autonomous Cargo Transport Rovers with Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning on a Graph Network")

## Phase 2
This time was focused on developing the simulation environment critical to my research. Most of this phase was strictly spent designing and implementing a human controllable version of general autonomous cargo delivery scenario. This simulation environment was required to be highly modular so that it could be adapted for any specific cargo delivery scenario as well as plugged into any machine learning or optimization model. This phase culminated in the submission of a now outdated version of this repository (see commit SHA c35c7d2b9cf5b5e5e21c4a904de9b000ce56805d).

## Phase 3
Phase three of my research was focused on the optimization of the dispatching algorithms used to solve the general autonomous cargo delivery scenario. This phase included both the implementation and training of reinforcement learning models (including much research into as well as trial and error with the model specifications and training paradigm which would be used for the solution). Additionally I developed and tested simpler non-learning solutions as comparisons for the reinforcement learning models which I had been training. Small modifications to the simulation were also made to aid in the training of the agents. This phase culminated in another meeting with Pengyu to discuss my results in which I was guided towards an optimization solution to my problem. This is where sections 4 and 5 of my thesis paper were well defined.

## Phase 4 
This phase included the finalization of my reinforcement learning solution, the conception and development of the brute-force optimization approach, as well as the writing of my thesis paper. The idea for the brute-force optimization solution was the result of a disconnect between what should theoretically be quite feasible as what seemed to be present in the problem. For a long time it seemed that a loss function could be directly written for the expected total task waiting time but this was eventually scrapped as an idea. The inspiration for the brute-force solution came from a reflection on the human decision making process. I appreciated that this solution seemed human inspired as are many successful machine learning algorithms (such as convolutional neural networks for image processing and multi-layer perceptrons). The result of this phase was my completed paper (see Efficient Dispatching of Autonomous Cargo Vehicles) and my presentation to be given at my thesis defence on May 4th, 2022 (see Efficient Dispatching of Autonomous Cargo Vehicles Slides).
